README.md, before:

# MongoDB Replica Set Deployment with Docker Compose

This guide provides step-by-step instructions to set up a MongoDB replica set using Docker Compose. A replica set in MongoDB is a group of `mongod` processes that maintain the same dataset, providing redundancy and high availability. 

## Prerequisites

- **Docker**: Ensure Docker is installed on your system.
- **Docker Compose**: Verify that Docker Compose is installed.

## Docker Compose Configuration

In the `docker-compose.yml` file, we've defined the services for the MongoDB replica set. It sets up three MongoDB instances (`mongo1`, `mongo2`, and `mongo3`) with replication enabled. Each instance is configured to be part of the `rs0` replica set.

## Starting the Replica Set

To start the MongoDB replica set:

1. **Build and Start Services**: Navigate to the project directory and run:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

   This command builds and starts the MongoDB containers in detached mode.

2. **Initialize the Replica Set**:
Initiates the replica set with the specified members.

   ```bash
   docker exec -it mongo1 mongosh --eval 'rs.initiate({ _id: "rs0", members: [ { _id: 0, host: "mongo1:27017" }, { _id: 1, host: "mongo2:
27017" }, { _id: 2, host: "mongo3:27017" } ] })'
   ```


## Verifying the Replica Set

To verify that the replica set is functioning correctly:

1. **Access the Mongo Shell**: Connect to the primary MongoDB instance:

   ```bash
   docker exec -it mongo1 mongosh --eval 'rs.status()'
   ```

   This command displays the current status of the replica set, including information about each member.

## Notes

- **Data Persistence**: The volumes defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file ensure that data persists between container restarts.
- **Authentication**: The `MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME` and `MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD` environment variables set up authentication for the MongoDB instances.

By following this guide, you have successfully set up a MongoDB replica set using Docker Compose, providing a robust environment for development and testing purposes.

Commit message:

docs: Refining docs with docker file

README.md, after:

# MongoDB Replica Set Deployment with Docker Compose

This guide provides step-by-step instructions to set up a MongoDB replica set using Docker Compose. A replica set in MongoDB is a group of `mongod` processes that maintain the same dataset, providing redundancy and high availability.

## Prerequisites

- **Docker**: Ensure Docker is installed on your system.
- **Docker Compose**: Verify that Docker Compose is installed.
- **Make**: Ensure that `make` is available.

## Starting the Replica Set

To start the MongoDB replica set, follow these steps:

1. **Start the Services**: In the project directory, run:

   ```bash
   make start
   ```

   This command will:
   - Start the MongoDB services defined in the `docker-compose.yml`.
   - Initialize the MongoDB replica set.

2. **Check the Replica Set Status**: After initializing the replica set, you can check the status by running:

   ```bash
   make check-status
   ```

   This will show the status of the replica set and its members.

## Stopping the Services

To stop the MongoDB services and clean up, use the following command:

```bash
make down
```

This command will bring down all the services defined in the `docker-compose.yml`.
